History :-

In 1991, Dr. W. Scott Stornetta published a whitepaper with his co-author Dr. Stuart Haber to introduce ‘blockchain’.
The term blockchain can be defined as a decentralised, cryptic database on which digital transactions take place.

Research paper title: “How to Time-Stamp a Digital Document” in 1991.

From this paper, it can be observed that the following two properties are methods of time-stamping digital documents:
1) Finding a way for automatic time-stamping, without relying on the characteristics of the data medium, making it impossible to change any part of the document without the change being very apparent.
2) It would be impossible to stamp a document with a different time and date from the actual one.

The next and certainly the most important Blockchain innovation was the Bitcoin. 
Satoshi Nakamoto published a white-paper in 2008, titled “Bitcoin: A Peer to Peer Electronic Cash System”. 
The paper mentioned that with peer-to-peer networking, there will be a solution to the problem of double spending in digital currency. 
The paper was aimed at building a peer-to-peer digital currency version which would enable people to spend it directly without involving a financial institution. 
It was a great development that allowed the user to make direct transactions without relying on a third party.

The Evolution of the Blockchain- Generation 1 to 4
1st Generation Blockchains focus on moving value, maintaining a ledger, ideal payment systems

First Generation Blockchain Technology:
Bitcoin’s Blockchain was achieved through the 1st Generation blockchain technology.

All participants share the ledger in blockchain, making it a decentralized and distributed ledger. Rather than leaving 
the record of all transactions to one central bank, everyone has a copy of the same ledger which is regularly updated. 
Even if a single ledger is tampered with, it will not affect other ledgers because there will be no recording or validating.

Now, why Bitcoin was created?

The founder of Bitcoin, the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto planned to remove Third-Party verification and intended to create a 
trustless payment platform with transactions that can not be reversed. Such a system is helpful in private transactions, receiving 
and providing financial aid to people residing in unstable countries with collapsing economies. Bitcoin is a currency with no borders.

 Second generation blockchains are those like Ethereum, Ethereum Classic, NEO and QTUM to name a few. These are widely referred to 
 as the second generation because they have made use of blockchain’s idea of recording transactions and expanded it to allow 
 programming languages.
 
 Second Generation Blockchain.
 
 Ethereum is a good example of a second generation blockchain. Ethereum is based on applying authoritative rules for ownership, 
 transaction formats and state transition functions, taking both the state of a blockchain and a transaction for that blockchain,
 which in turn results into a new state. Ethereum is actually a platform that uses the currency Ether. The purpose of its platform 
 is to draw up ‘smart contracts’ and conduct transactions, and these processes are fueled by the currency ether (ETH).
 
 But what is a smart contract ? A smart contract is a coded contract that is subsequently uploaded to a blockchain. Whenever a contract 
 is executed in a blockchain, every network node runs it and then uploads it to the blockchain.
 In simpler terms, the smart contract is a coded ‘If-Then’ statement. That is, if certain requirements are met, the terms of the 
 contract will be carried out. This process is not trust-based; it can never be tampered with by any party, nor can any party cheat 
 and fail on its end of the deal. Introducing smart contract to the blockchain technology has many practical functions, as visibly
 portrayed by the simple example of online shopping.
 
 Third Generation Blockchain Technology.
 
 Third generation blockchains present themselves as blockchains that can service massive amounts of people and self-govern. 
 Third generation blockchains have self-governance at their core. E.g. Steem.
 What third generation blockchains are capable of doing is to connect two or more blockchains like a computer network connection
 
 Third generation blockchains can also function in layers. That way, one layer could handle contracts, one layer handles transactions 
 and another layer passes secure data among blockchains. This is aimed at securing the blockchain and never slowing it down or 
 compromising its performance. Blockchains like Ethereum gets compromised that way.
 
 
 
 
