
In order to interact and transact with Bitcoin, you will need a bitcoin wallet. A Bitcoin wallet will enable you to receive, 
transfer and store Bitcoins.
Once you install or create your Bitcoin wallet, it will generate a public Bitcoin address, public key and private key. 
When transacting with Bitcoin, you should never let people know your private key, as doing so will enable others to gain 
access to your Bitcoin wallet. Always store the private key in a safe place. In theory, you can create as many Bitcoin 
wallet address as you like, as long as you are able to keep a backup 
of all of your private keys.


The technological architecture of a Bitcoin blockchain is more complex, it comprises of:

1.Distributed ledger
2.Consensus algorithm
3.Cryptography


Distributed ledger

  The Bitcoin blockchain is a shared public ledger on which all the transactions of the Bitcoin network are verified, 
  confirmed, recorded and made transparent to the public. You could actually look at the confirmed transactions through 
  the Bitcoin blockchain explorer.
  
  From the blockchain explorer, you can see the sender, receiver, timestamp, miner and amount of Bitcoin in any single 
  transaction.
  
  A distributed ledger is a database that is consensually shared and synchronized across multiple sites, institutions 
  or geographies. It allows transactions to have public "witnesses," thereby making a cyberattack more difficult. 
  The participant at each node of the network can access the recordings shared across that network and can own an 
  identical copy of it.
  
  
Consensus algorithm
  Mining
    Mining is a distributed consensus system that is used to confirm pending transactions by including them in the 
    block chain. It enforces a chronological order in the blockchain, protects the neutrality of the network, and 
    allows different computers to agree on the state of the system. To be confirmed, transactions must be packed 
    in a block that fits very strict cryptographic rules that will be verified by the network. These rules prevent 
    previous blocks from being modified because doing so would invalidate all the subsequent blocks. Mining also 
    creates the equivalent of a competitive lottery that prevents any individual from easily adding new blocks 
    consecutively to the blockchain. In this way, no group or individuals can control what is included in the block 
    chain or replace parts of the blockchain to roll back their own spends.
    
    
 Cryptography
  The two cryptographic concepts used in the Bitcoin blockchain, and in any blockchain in general, are hashing and 
  public-private key cryptography.
  
  
What is Bitcoin Cash ?
Bitcoin cash is a cryptocurrency created in August 2017, arising from a fork of Bitcoin Classic.
Bitcoin Cash increases the size of blocks, allowing more transactions to be processed.

Bitcoin Cash differs from Bitcoin Classic in that it increases the block size from 1 MB to 8 MB. 
It also removes Segregated Witness (SegWit), a proposed code adjustment designed to free up block 
space by removing certain parts of the transaction. The goal of Bitcoin Cash is to increase the 
number of transactions that can be processed.


What is Soft Fork ?
Whenever a chain needs to be updated there are two ways of doing that: a soft fork or a hard fork.
In terms of blockchain technology, a soft fork (or sometimes softfork) is a change to the software 
protocol where only previously valid blocks/transactions are made invalid. Since old nodes will 
recognize the new blocks as valid, a soft fork is backward-compatible. This kind of fork requires 
only a majority of the miners upgrading to enforce the new rules, as opposed to a hard fork that 
requires all nodes to upgrade and agree on the new version.

What is Hard Fork ?
A hard fork (or hardfork), as it relates to blockchain technology, is a radical change to a network's 
protocol that makes previously invalid blocks and transactions valid, or vice-versa. A hard fork requires 
all nodes or users to upgrade to the latest version of the protocol software.

What is Pre-Mine?
  Premining is the mining or creation of a number of cryptocurrency coins before the cryptocurrency is 
  launched to the public. Premining should not be confused with Premine, an alternate cryptocurrency 
  with the currency symbol PMC.
  
What is Cloud Mining
Cloud mining is the process of buying CPU power from dedicated data centers who use their own equipment 
to mine cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin (BTC) on your behalf.
