What is blockchain?
Blockchain is a decentralized distributed database of immutable records, where transactions are protected by strong 
cryptographic algorithms and the network status is maintained by the Consensus algorithm.

Blockchain is the algorithm for Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT ). The concept of DLT and Blockchain can be used 
in various applications different from cryptocurrency network. Such industries where Blockchain can be applied include: 
Real estate, logistics, Banking and Financial Sector, Fintechs, elections and surveys. 

Features of blockchain

1) Decentralized System
Decentralized technology gives you the opportunity to store your assets in a network that can be further accessed 
through internet. An asset in this case can be anything from a contract to a document and many more. Through this 
token-based asset, the owner has a direct control over his account through the use of a key linked to his account, 
giving the owner a power to securely transfer his assets to anyone he wants.The Blockchain technology proves to be a 
really useful tool for decentralizing the web. It has the power to bring big changes in the industries.

2) Mining
Mining” is carried out by a “miner” who solves a complex mathematical computation. It is the process of creating new 
blocks and pushing them up to the blockchain. Miners compete with one other because of the reward they can get after 
they solve puzzles. The miner who solves the puzzle first will get the prize. This process of solving the puzzle is 
called “Proof of Work”. This set of procedures that the network has to follow to create the next block is known as 
“the consensus model”. In Proof of Work, a miner has to use a large amount of computational materials to create the 
next block.

3) Safe and Secure System
Blockchain is able to analyze and revise itself from time to time which serves like a self- revision process.
All the nodes in a Blockchain together create a very powerful network. Every node serves as an “administrator” of the 
blockchain, and joins the network. Every node in the network is rewarded for participating in the network. Therefore, 
the nodes compete by solving computational puzzles for a chance to win the digital currencies. This way, these specific 
nodes are “mining” for the blocks that contain all the transaction details.

3) Increased Capacity
This is the first and also an important Blockchain feature. The most amazing thing about this Blockchain technology is 
that it increases the capacity of the whole network. This is because there are a lot of computers working together that
offer more power in total then the few devices that are centralized.

What are the benefits of blockchain?
Transparency
Reduced transaction costs
Faster transaction settlements
Decentralization
User controlled network
Efficiency
Auditability
