Currency and Transaction Support:
  One out of many benefits of Blockchain technology is that the databases work continuously with cryptocurrencies, which are 
  simply put digital cash secured by cryptography. Blockchain technology allows for people to send cryptocurrencies between each 
  other as a transfer of value. This is done without the need of third parties.
  
Supply Chains and Item Histories:
  With the help of Blockchain technology, we can easily find out where a product or good is made, by whom, and if the 
  quality and condition of this product or good is of an acceptable quality.
  
Voting:
  Voting has always raise suspicions, most especially during tough presidential elections. This was exactly what happened 
  with Hillary Clinton vs Donald Trump election in 2016, during which foreign intelligence agencies (for the most part, Russia)
  were accused of influencing the United States’ presidential election.
  But if Blockchain technology were to be used for voting purposes, there would be no cause for alarm as to the results’ 
  authenticity and legitimacy, simply because all entries in a decentralized ledger are immutable and irreversible.
  
  
Government Operations:
  Blockchain technology usage in terms of political operations will allow us to ensure that no transactions or odd 
  deals take place “off the books”. The transparency provided by the decentralized ledger will also assist in increasing 
  the overall integrity.
  
Intellectual Property:
  There will soon be opportunities for individuals to have the intellectual property rights to their contents with the help 
  of certain Blockchain projects, regardless of where it ends up, and everyone else would be aware of this too.
  
Cloud Storage:
    Presently, the cloud storage market is controlled by certain trustworthy organizations such as Google Drive, 
    Dropbox, and among few others. However, it is risky and totally centralized for a single entity being in possession 
    of all your files.

    Thankfully, there are projects that use decentralization to encrypt and improve cloud storage security of your personal 
    files using cryptography. This signifies that you are in full control of your data and only you who can access it.
    
Real Estate:
    Blockchain technology has made life easier with improvement in transaction speeds of buying and selling of real estate, 
    as well as making record keeping more efficient and reliable by accepting the need to keep paper-based records that can be 
    altered or lost.


--------------------------------------------------------xxxxxxx----------------------------------------------------------------

What is the future of blockchain technology?

1.Widespread Distributed Data Models

2.DLT-Based System (Distributed ledger technology)
      Distributed ledger technology (DLT) is a digital system for recording the transaction of assets in which the transactions
      and their details are recorded in multiple places at the same time. Unlike traditional databases, distributed ledgers have 
      no central data store or administration functionality.

3.Standardization And Collaboration
      One of the areas of advancement in blockchain will be the standardization of interoperability among the different blockchains. 
      While it is inevitable that there will be several blockchains with a specific business purpose, true benefits for the 
      consumer or enterprise will be realized when they are able to "collaborate" in an open standard.
      
4.A Growing Need For Credible Crypto Backing
      Money, regardless of whether it’s physical or digital, needs credible backing. When there are no trusted parties handling 
      the transactions, then a distributed ledger becomes key, like blockchain. However, if a cryptocurrency is an official currency, 
      then there are already technologies in place to ensure transactional integrity and prohibit tampering with transactional data.
      
5.A Potential Ecosystem Of Specialized Chains
      Defunct crypto currencies have created a significant amount of “public technical debt,” and their smart-contracts might 
      still get triggered. As we calibrate and confirm industry-grade blockchain use cases -- healthcare information exchange 
      and crypto claims settlement, for example -- we will likely end up with an ecosystem of specialized chains, operating 
      security and utility chains in parallel.
      
6.Blockchain-Based Security Measures
      
7.Change of Blockchain towards Maturity
    
