How does blockchain work?


Cryptography
Cryptography is a method of hiding information to keep its content safe and secret. To uncover the information, 
the reader needs to know how the information has been modified, or encrypted. The encrypted message can, if properly 
done, be read only by the sender and the recipient.

Hash Function
A hash is a set of numbers and letters, produced by hash functions. A hash function is a mathematical function that 
takes a variable number of characters and converts it into a set with a fixed number of characters. Even a small change 
in a set creates a totally new hash.

A Merkle tree summarizes all the transactions in a block by producing a digital fingerprint of the entire set of transactions, 
thereby enabling a user to verify whether or not a transaction is included in a block.
Merkle trees are created by repeatedly hashing pairs of nodes until there is only one hash left (this hash is called the Root Hash, 
or the Merkle Root). They are constructed from the bottom up, from hashes of individual transactions (known as Transaction IDs)
Each leaf node is a hash of transactional data, and each non-leaf node is a hash of its previous hashes. Merkle trees are binary 
and therefore require an even number of leaf nodes. If the number of transactions is odd, the last hash will be duplicated once to 
create an even number of leaf nodes

NONCE
A nonce is an abbreviation for "number only used once," which is a number added to a hashed—or encrypted—block in a blockchain that, 
when rehashed, meets the difficulty level restrictions. The nonce is the number that blockchain miners are solving for. When the 
solution is found, the blockchain miners are offered cryptocurrency in exchange.

NODES
Computers are called nodes. and every time a transaction occurs it has to be approved by the nodes, each of whom checks its validity. 
A form of electric vote occurs once every node has checked a transaction, because some nodes may think the transaction is valid while
others may think it is a fraud.

Each node (computers) has a copy of the digital ledger or Blockchain, therefore each node checks the validity of each transaction. 
If a majority of nodes say that a transaction is valid then it is written into a block.

Block
A block is a one spreadsheet but the whole family of blocks is the Blockchain and every node has a copy of the Blockchain. 
Once a block reaches a certain number of approved transactions, then a new block is formed.

The Blockchain automatically updates itself every ten minutes. No master or central computer is needed to instruct the computers 
to do this.
Immediately the spreadsheet or ledger or registry is updated, it can no longer be altered. Thus, it is impossible to forge but 
can only add new entries to it. The registry is updated on all computers on the network at the same time.

Important points:

A Blockchain is a type of diary or spreadsheet containing information about transactions.

Each transaction generates a hash.

A hash is a string of numbers and letters.

Transactions are entered in the order in which they occurred. Order is very important.

The hash depends not only on the transaction but the previous transaction's hash.

Even a small change in a transaction creates a completely new hash.

The nodes check to make sure a transaction has not been changed by inspecting the hash.

If a transaction is approved by a majority of the nodes then it is written into a block.

Each block refers to the previous block and together make the Blockchain.

A Blockchain is effective as it is spread over many computers, each of which have a copy of the blockchain.

These computers are called nodes

The Blockchain updates itself every 10 minutes.

What is a wallet?
A wallet is a string of numbers and letters,such as 18c177926650e5550973303c300e136f22673b74. 
This is an address that will appear in different blocks within the Blockchain as transactions take place. 
There will be no visible records of who did the transaction or with whom it was done, only the number of a wallet. 
The address of individual wallet is also a public key.

Digital signature
You need two things in order to carry out a transaction: a wallet, which is mainly an address, and a private key. 
The private key is also a string of random numbers, but this private key must be kept secret unlike the address.
When someone decides to send coins to anybody, they must sign the message containing the transaction with their private key.

What are cryptographic keys?
A cryptographic key is simply a string of numbers and letters which are made by key generators also known as keygens.
These keygens make use of a very advanced mathematics involving prime numbers to create these keys.

Protocols
The Blockchain comprises of individual behaviour specifications and a large set of rules that are programmed into it. 
Those specifications are referred to as protocols. The implementation of individual protocols basically made Blockchain 
what it is (a distributed, peer-to-peer and secured information database).

->Listed below are few samples of protocols implemented in Blockchain:

-Input data for every hash number has to include the previous block’s hash number.

-After every 210,000 blocks are sealed-off, the reward for successfully mining a block decreases by half.

-Mining difficulty is recalculated every 2,016 blocks so that the amount of time needed to mine one block can be kept at approximately 
10 minutes.

The placing of a transaction in a block is known as a successful conclusion to a proof of work challenge, and is 
carried out by special nodes called miners.


Proof of Work is a structure that requires some work from the service requester, which usually means the processing time by a computer.
Producing a proof of work is a random process with low probability, so it involves a lot of trial and error to generate a valid proof 
of work. In Bitcoins, hash is what represent the proof of work.

What is mining?
In Blockchain, miners are nodes that generate blocks by solving proof of work problems. If a miner generates a block that
is accepted by an electronic consensus of nodes, then the miner is rewarded with coins. As of October 2017, Bitcoin miners get 
12.5 Bitcoins per block.







